PAUL LEWIS: Hello, folks, and
welcome to the second season
of the "Developer Diary."
The first one, I built the
Chrome Dev Summit site.
This time, I'm going to be
building a video media app.
So expect things like
Chromecast support,
expect things like
adaptive streaming,
expect things like service
workers and offline media.
There's gonna be loads.
Clearly, there's
going to be loads.
But what I thought I'd do
in this particular entry
is just show you
around the design.
So in the past
little while, I've
been working on the designs.
I'm not a designer.
So I just sort of
play at design,
and I'm now going to
show you what I designed.
So there we go.
That's me.
That's what I do apparently.
Right.
On my screen, then let's
have a look what we've got.
Let me show you this.
This is quite interesting.
I mean, I think it's
quite interesting.
I guess you do too because you
got this far into the video.
Right.
These are the icons.
Now, you might be like, why
has he got so many icons?
The answer is this top one, this
kind of greeny-turquoisey one,
that's what I'm currently
going with as the default icon,
probably the one that gets
added to the home screen.
And then below it,
this purple one.
Let me explain.
The problem with
the turquoisey-green
is what if you get
some poster frame
for video that's really orangey
or just a really different
color, something
that would really
clash with that turquoise.
So I thought well, I'll
tell you what we'll do.
We'll just change
the color scheme
of the site, the icons, and
everything else to just match.
So I've been working on some
code, which I'll show you soon,
that does a thing called
median cut, which is just
a way of slicing and dicing
the colors from an image
so that you get a
representative palette,
a representative
sample from that image.
It's not that complex to
understand or even to do,
but it seems to work
out pretty well.
Anyway, so I thought if the
album art picture, post frame--
I don't know what
to call it, it's
got loads of different names--
but if the picture
that represents a video
is this purply one
here, which looks
to be the Millennium Bridge
in London looking over
to Saint Paul's
Cathedral, if it's that,
then it's a more purply one.
You can see the icon's purply.
Then this flamingo that
is not doing the flamenco.
But if it was, it would be
a flamingo doing a flamenco.
This bright orange
flamingo, that gives us
this kind of orangey look.
Bottom one arguably
should be a bit bluer,
but the code came up with
these kind of grayish colors.
So that's what I kind
of opted for for now.
I'll probably adjust the
code as it goes through.
Anyway, icons, they
are going to adapt
to the content of the site.
So what does the
actual site look like?
Well, this is what it
looks like on desktop.
Let me zoom in for you here.
Too far, Paul, too far.
Back it up.
There we are.
Right.
At the top, you can
see there's the icon.
There's basically
a featured video
with a big play button
in the middle that's
like, this is the one that
I think you should watch.
And in the top right-hand
corner, if I do sign in--
not sure I'm going to need to
or want to, see how it goes.
There isn't a big need to,
but it's an opportunity for me
to try using the
credentials API,
so that seems like
a good thing to do.
Anyway, we will see how it goes.
If you tap on your
little avatar picture,
you get a menu there
with the managing
your downloads, and your
history, and stuff like that.
Star rating, the
name of the show
and then the episode
underneath it.
Underneath that, we
got some new releases.
There's sort of
thumbnails for those,
whether or not you've watched
a particular one, star rating.
For some reason, I only
bothered putting in the duration
on the left-hand one.
Obviously, I was having a
lazy day because really it
should be on all of them.
Oh, well.
So below that, we also have
a kind of marketing area.
Because, again, if you're
going to build a media app,
you kind of want
to be like, hey,
you should add to home
screen and be awesome.
And then below
that, there's just--
I haven't even put
the thumbnails,
didn't even put thumbnails in--
I just dropped in
a grid placeholder
for more content that's
going to go here and then
a footer at the bottom.
So fairly straightforward.
Let me see what else
is worth showing you.
Because you can go
offline, there's
a version here where
we've said, show me
only the downloaded ones
only, and then we gray out any
that you can't play.
We put this banner
at the top that's
like, I'm only showing
you the downloaded ones.
If you want to see all your
videos, switch off that.
So that grays out all the
ones that you can't see.
Mobile is actually not--
let me just open up
properly-- mobile
is not vastly different
really to the desktop.
When I design, I tend
to design desktop first
because it means that I
think about everything that
needs to go in there,
and then I think
about how to fit
that appropriately
into a mobile space, rather
than starting mobile and adding
features in because
I think that can be
quite frustrating for people.
They're like, but you can
do them on the desktop.
Why can't I do that on a phone?
So that tends to be
how I do the design.
I actually build mobile first,
but I design desktop first.
Whatever.
Right.
What else can I show you?
Oh, the video player.
The actual video player,
that's where all the fun
stuff is probably going
to be hiding, I imagine.
This is what it looks like.
We could zoom that
down a little bit.
It's a bit big.
So we have video playing.
There's a Close button.
There's a skipping back
and forwards by 30 seconds.
I might see how that feels.
Thirty seconds might
be a bit too much.
I don't know.
Pause/play, big one in
the middle, but also
a small one if your thumb is
down in the bottom corner,
you might want to just tap that.
A time slider scrubbing
thing that moves you further
into the video.
Volume control,
that may or may not
pan out because on a mobile,
you tend to, I think,
do you tap that button?
Would you or would you just
use the phone's volume?
I think you probably
use the phone's volume.
I'm not sure about that one.
Full screen, again,
on something like iOS,
you'd probably have
full screen by default
if you tapped on a video.
I'm pretty sure
that's what it still
does, whereas other ones
might be in line playback.
I guess we'll see how that goes.
Taking the video, making
available offline is grand.
And then a Chromecast button.
Gonna be fun adding
Chromecast support.
There's actually,
I think, two ways
to do it, which is interesting.
I think the presentation
API, and then there's
the remote playback API.
Wow, we've got
fun stuff to come.
Anyway, so that's
playing videos.
So hopefully you see the kind of
thing that I'm trying to build.
Think of any video
playback service,
like video on-demand
playback service.
It's that kind of app basically.
Cool.
Right.
I'm going to stop it there
because I don't want to take up
too much of your time.
I think in the
next entry, what I
want to do is I want to
talk a little bit more
about video formats and just
what I've discovered so far
about how video
playback can be done.
It's interesting.
It's definitely
much more involved
than I thought it
was going to be.
[NERVOUS LAUGHTER]
See you then.
Hey, folks, if you're upset
that this video has finished,
don't worry.
There's more.
They're about here.
And you can click on them,
and then they'll start,
and then there'll be more video.
And at the end of
that, you'll probably
see me at the end
going, if you are
disappointed that this video
is finished, then there's more.
And you can do that
all day everyday.
Or if you decide to not do that
all day everyday and you want
to subscribe, there's a
button kind of here-ish
you should click.
And then you'll always
get notified when
we put stuff on the channel.
Ah, brilliant.